These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
ISO20022
SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
by The Swift Standards Team
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
ISO20022 For Dummies®, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
Published by
John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
111 River St.
Hoboken, NJ 07030-5774
www.wiley.com
Copyright © 2022 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any
form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning or otherwise,
except as permitted under Sections 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without the
prior written permission of the Publisher. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be
addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ
07030, (201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-6008, or online at http://www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
Trademarks: Wiley, For Dummies, the Dummies Man logo, The Dummies Way, Dummies.com,
Making Everything Easier, and related trade dress are trademarks or registered trademarks of John
Wiley & Sons, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the United States and other countries, and may not be
used without written permission. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
John Wiley & Sons, Inc., is not associated with any product or vendor mentioned in this book.
LIMIT OF LIABILITY/DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY: WHILE THE PUBLISHER AND AUTHORS HAVE
USED THEIR BEST EFFORTS IN PREPARING THIS WORK, THEY MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS
OR WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE CONTENTS OF
THIS WORK AND SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
NO WARRANTY MAY BE CREATED OR EXTENDED BY SALES REPRESENTATIVES, WRITTEN
SALES MATERIALS OR PROMOTIONAL STATEMENTS FOR THIS WORK. THE FACT THAT AN
ORGANIZATION, WEBSITE, OR PRODUCT IS REFERRED TO IN THIS WORK AS A CITATION AND/
OR POTENTIAL SOURCE OF FURTHER INFORMATION DOES NOT MEAN THAT THE PUBLISHER
AND AUTHORS ENDORSE THE INFORMATION OR SERVICES THE ORGANIZATION, WEBSITE, OR
PRODUCT MAY PROVIDE OR RECOMMENDATIONS IT MAY MAKE. THIS WORK IS SOLD WITH
THE UNDERSTANDING THAT THE PUBLISHER IS NOT ENGAGED IN RENDERING PROFESSIONAL
SERVICES. THE ADVICE AND STRATEGIES CONTAINED HEREIN MAY NOT BE SUITABLE FOR
YOUR SITUATION. YOU SHOULD CONSULT WITH A SPECIALIST WHERE APPROPRIATE. FURTHER,
READERS SHOULD BE AWARE THAT WEBSITES LISTED IN THIS WORK MAY HAVE CHANGED
OR DISAPPEARED BETWEEN WHEN THIS WORK WAS WRITTEN AND WHEN IT IS READ.
NEITHER THE PUBLISHER NOR AUTHORS SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOSS OF PROFIT OR ANY
OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,
CONSEQUENTIAL, OR OTHER DAMAGES.
For general information on our other products and services, or how to create a custom
For Dummies book for your business or organization, please contact our Business Development
Department in the U.S. at 877-409-4177, contact info@dummies.biz, or visit www.wiley.com/go/
custompub. For information about licensing the For Dummies brand for products or services,
contact BrandedRights&Licenses@Wiley.com.
ISBN 978-1-119-98384-2 (pbk); ISBN 978-1-119-98385-9 (ebk)
Publisher’s Acknowledgments
Development Editor:
Rachael Chilvers
Project Editor:
Tamilmani Varadharaj
Acquisitions Editor: Ashley Coffey
Editorial Manager: Rev Mengle
Business Development
Representative: Molly Daugherty
Table of Contents iii
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Table of Contents
FOREWORD..........................................................................................................v
INTRODUCTION............................................................................................... 1
Foolish Assumptions............................................................................ 1
How This Book Is Organised ............................................................... 2
Icons Used in This Book....................................................................... 3
Beyond the Book .................................................................................. 3
CHAPTER 1:	 Lifting the Lid on ISO 20022................................................. 5
What Are Financial Standards? ........................................................... 5
ISO 20022 Basics ................................................................................11
What Makes ISO 20022 So Useful?...................................................17
CHAPTER 2:	 Putting ISO 20022 into Practice......................................21
Checking Out Payments, Funds & Securities, Forex,
Cards and Trade .................................................................................21
Understanding How Standards Coexist ..........................................25
ISO 20022 for Cross-border Payments – Preparation
Starts Now...........................................................................................28
From Coexistence to Interoperability ..............................................29
ISO 20022 Implementation ...............................................................32
Implementation Considerations.......................................................34
CHAPTER 3:	 Understanding the ISO 20022 Organisation........37
Business Justification Submission and Approval............................38
Developing Candidate ISO 20022 Messages and
API Resources .....................................................................................38
Approving Candidate ISO 20022 Messages and
API Resources .....................................................................................39
Publishing ISO 20022 Messages and API Resources......................40
CHAPTER 4:	 A Perfect Partnership: ISO 20022 and SWIFT.......41
Understanding SWIFT’s Role in the ISO 20022 Standard...............41
CHAPTER 5:	 Ten Reasons to Adopt ISO 20022...................................45
iv ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
CHAPTER 6:	 (Almost) Ten Things to Tell Your CIO
about ISO 20022..........................................................................47
CHAPTER 7:	 (More than) Ten Useful Links for
Standards Implementers....................................................49
GLOSSARY..........................................................................................................51
Foreword v
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Foreword
I
n our industry, where trust, interoperability and resilience are
key requirements, the quality of data exchanged between us,
closer and closer to real-time, and between increasingly diverse
stakeholders in the value chain, is of paramount importance.
This is why financial services industry experts have developed
ISO 20022, a global and open standard for information exchange,
that’s being adopted by a growing number of users in various domains: securities, payments, foreign exchange, cards and
related services,notably for end-to-end straight-through processing (STP), components management or regulatory reporting.
Just take a look at the ISO 20022 website, and you’ll be impressed
by the scope of what’s already covered!
The ISO 20022 standard provides a methodology to describe
business processes and a common business language. It can be
rendered in different syntaxes, enabling implementations for
messaging and application programming interfaces (APIs). It’s
supported by a central repository, which includes a data dictionary and a catalogue of messages– and is accessible to all.
From a business point of view, the usage of this universal messaging standard, versatile by design and maintained by a broad
community of professionals, improves efficiency in delivering
products and services.
And it is a success: ISO 20022 implementations are spreading
across all domains and regions by replacing legacy standards and
supporting new business needs.
Many thanks to SWIFT for their continuous support and involvement in ISO work. This book will help managers better understand how migrating to ISO 20022 can improve their business.
Patrice Hertzog
Chairman, ISO TC68/SC9 Information Exchange for Financial Services
Introduction 1
Introduction
While many people in the financial services industry have
heard about ISO 20022, few truly understand what it’s
about and what’s so great about it. At SWIFT, we’re
convinced that ISO 20022 can bring profound benefits to the
financial services industry, as it improves end-to-end processing
across domains and geographies that currently use vastly different standards and information formats. This book removes the
mystery from ISO 20022; it helps you understand why it matters,
and lets you see how you can benefit from it.
And we’re not the only ones who love ISO20022! Both securities and payments systems covering all major currencies have
either adopted ISO 20022 or are in the process of adopting it, and
the financial community has now decided that it’s time for all
payments to move from SWIFT MT to ISO 20022. ISO 20022 represents a big opportunity to improve the quality of payments data,
end-to-end, which enables improved efficiency, compliance and
customer experience.
Foolish Assumptions
This book makes some foolish assumptions about you, the reader:
» You’re interested in information processing in the financial
services industry.
» You know something about how the financial industry works.
» You’ve heard about ISO 20022 and you want to know more:
what it aims to do; who uses it and why; and how to use it
yourself.
» You want to contribute to the ISO 20022 effort.
» You regularly send or receive payment instructions, confirmations or statements in MT form and are therefore facing a
global change to ISO 20022.
While some knowledge of the industry and the use of information processing might be helpful when reading this book, we
explain all the concepts and terms when we first introduce them.
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
2 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
In addition, we’ve added a glossary of terms and acronyms in the
appendix.
How This Book Is Organised
This book comprises seven chapters and a glossary. If you don’t
have time to read the whole book, we suggest you flip to Chapters 5
and 6 and read the summaries: Ten Great Things about ISO 20022
and (Almost) Ten Things to Tell Your CIO about ISO 20022. Most
importantly, be sure to read Chapter  2. Your world is going to
change, and there are things you’ll need to learn and do.
» Chapter 1 – Lifting the Lid on ISO 20022: This part introduces the key concepts of financial messaging; it explains
where ISO 20022 fits in, and outlines what makes it different
from other standards.
» Chapter 2 – Seeing ISO 20022 in Practice: This part focuses
on the use of ISO 20022 – where it’s currently being used,
and for what; it also contains some helpful advice on
implementation. ISO 20022 is changing the world of
payments and this chapter tells you what you need to know.
» Chapter 3 – Understanding the ISO 20022 Organisation:
Here we explain the ISO organisation, and describe the
various committees and working groups that together
define, maintain and promote the standard.
» Chapter 4 – A Perfect Match: ISO 20022 and SWIFT: SWIFT
is a major contributor to ISO 20022 on many fronts. This part
describes SWIFT’s long relationship with the standard, and
the services that SWIFT can offer to help implementers and
contributors.
This chapter also describes the ISO Adoption Programme,
and how it affects all institutions using SWIFT for payments.
» Chapter 5 – Ten Reasons to Adopt ISO 20022: Here, we
give you ten good reasons why ISO 20022 is good for you
and good for your business.
» Chapter 6 – (Almost) Ten Things to Tell Your CIO about
ISO 20022: A summary of the key points in the book.
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Introduction 3
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
» Chapter 7 – (More than) Ten Useful Links for Standards
Implementers: Find websites to further your
understanding.
Although most of the terms and acronyms you need are explained
as we go, we’ve also collected these into a glossary, which you’ll
find in the back of the book.
Dip in and out of the book as you wish. You can go to any chapter
that looks interesting or even read it from front to back!
Icons Used in This Book
All For Dummies books use little icons in the margins, to help you
navigate the information.
The Example icon indicates examples to illustrate a point and
inspire you.
The Tip icon signifies particularly useful advice.
This icon highlights important information to bear in mind.
Beyond the Book
If you want to discover more about SWIFT and ISO20022 after
reading this book, please visit www.swift.com.
CHAPTER 1 Lifting the Lid on ISO 20022 5
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Chapter 1
IN THIS CHAPTER
» Introducing financial messaging
standards
» Understanding how ISO 20022 is different
Lifting the Lid on
ISO 20022
I
n essence, ISO 20022 is a recipe for making financial standards.
This chapter starts off by delving into what financial standards
are, before coming to ISO 20022 itself later in the chapter.
What Are Financial Standards?
In this context of this book, financial standards are definitions of
everything, from broad concepts to microscopic pieces of business
data, and all points in between. These definitions are captured in
a highly structured model, which can then export those definitions to developers and users of applications, screens, messages,
API calls and any other data representation that needs to speak
the language of financial transactions with clarity and precision.
To conduct their business, financial institutions exchange massive amounts of information with their customers and among
themselves. Such exchanges only work if the sender and receiver
of a message have a common understanding of how to interpret
this information. This is especially true if either party wishes to
rely entirely on computers to process information.
6 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Grasping the basics: Syntax
and semantics
To be able to eliminate the need for human intervention to
interpret the data, the financial industry has created message
definitions  – that is, agreements on how to organise the data
they want to exchange in structured formats (syntax) and
meaning (semantics). Based on such message definitions, they will
exchange messages, as illustrated by the following extract of a
simple payment instruction.
Suppose ExampleBank in Utrecht, the Netherlands (Bank Identifier Code (BIC) EXABNL2U) has been requested by its corporate
customer ACME NV, Amstel 344, Amsterdam to transfer 12,500
US Dollars on 06 April 2022 from its account 8754219990.
Instead of addressing the above instruction to its US Dollar
correspondent in unstructured text, ExampleBank sends a
structured message based on a standard message definition:
<CdtTrfTxInf>
<IntrBkSttlmAmt Ccy=‘USD’>12500</IntrBkSttlmAmt>
<IntrBkSttlmDt>2022-04-06</IntrBkSttlmDt>
<Dbtr>
  <Nm>ACME NV.</Nm>
  <PstlAdr>
   <StrtNm>Amstel</StrtNm>
   <BldgNb>344</BldgNb>
   <TwnNm>Amsterdam</TwnNm>
   <Ctry>NL</Ctry>
  </PstlAdr>
</Dbtr>
<DbtrAcct>
CHAPTER 1 Lifting the Lid on ISO 20022 7
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
  <Id>
   <Othr>
    <Id>8754219990</Id>
   </Othr>
  </Id>
</DbtrAcct>
<DbtrAgt>
  <FinInstnId>
   <BIC>EXABNL2U</BIC>
  </FinInstnId>
</DbtrAgt>
</CdtTrfTxInf>
The above example is an excerpt from an ISO 20022 Customer
Credit Transfer in the XML syntax.
Messaging standards provide clear definitions of the information
and data formats (field lengths, codes, character sets) that can
be exchanged between parties. The above message, for example,
contains the line
<IntrBkSttlmAmt Ccy=‘USD’>12500</IntrBkSttlmAmt>
to indicate the currency and amount of the transaction. The
underlying standard for a Customer Credit Transfer message
tells you that this field is mandatory, that it starts with the tag
‘IntrBkSttlmAmt’ and that the information in the field must consist of three letters (the ISO currency code) and up to 18 digits for
the actual amount.
ISO 20022 is just one example of a standard used in the financial
industry. The following section gives some context by describing
financial messaging, the standards it uses and some of the problems posed by the multitude of such standards.
8 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
So many standards, so little time
‘The great thing about standards is that there are so many to
choose from’. It’s an old joke, but very relevant in the financial
industry. Many different standards exist covering different geographies and business areas. Many individual institutions even
use their own proprietary standards internally and/or with their
customers.
This excerpt is taken from a SWIFT Single Customer Credit Transfer message (MT103) that does more or less the same thing as the
ISO 20022 Customer Credit Transfer shown earlier. You’ll note
that most information is the same, but the tags and the order of
the fields are different:
:32A:06042022USD12500,
:50F:/8754219990
1/ACME NV.
2/AMSTEL 344
3/NL/AMSTERDAM
:52A: EXABNL2U
Here’s another example of the same information, this time using
the Fedwire proprietary standard:
{1520}20220406xxxxxxxxyyyyyy {2000}000001250000
{5000}D8754219990ACMENV.*AMSTEL 344*AMSTERDAM*
NETHERLANDS* {5100}BEXABNL2U*
All of the above examples provide the same information, but each
uses a different standard.
Processes and value chains in financial services often cover different geographical and business areas. The proliferation of different
messaging standards in the financial industry creates problems
in automating these end-to-end chains. Two significant barriers exist to a common understanding of information shared by
the people and computers involved in such processes: the use of
different syntaxes (structure) and the use of different semantics
(meaning).
CHAPTER 1 Lifting the Lid on ISO 20022 9
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
The syntax barrier
The syntax is the format in which the information in a message is
structured. Unless the reader understands a specific syntax, it’s
not possible to understand the message content. There’s a lot of
confusion about the difference between a standard and a syntax. The standard describes the agreement on what information
is expressed, while the syntax is the format, or the ‘language’
used to express that information. It’s difficult for two people to
have a conversation unless they both use and understand the
same language. The same is true for syntax. Globalisation and
the ever-increasing need for end-to-end processing increases
the problem.
In ISO 20022, the most widely used syntax is eXtensible Mark-up
Language (XML). The use of short tag names (like <PstlAdr> to
represent a postal address) is also part of the syntax.
XML is one of the most popular formats to encode documents (or
messages) electronically on the internet. It enables communities
to define their own identifiers (or tags) and format (or data type)
for each component of a message. With XML, data is marked up
by using opening and closing tags that indicate the meaning and
structure of the information that is communicated. For example,
<Dt>2022-09-29</Dt> is an XML representation of 29 September
2022. The combination of opening and closing tags with the data
is called an element.
The MT103 Single Customer Credit Transfer extract illustrated
earlier in this part uses a SWIFT proprietary syntax. It too uses
tags, called field tags, to introduce data. These are alphanumeric
characters between colons. This is followed by the actual field
content. In the example, :52A: is the field tag (Ordering Institution) and EXABNL2U is the field content.
The semantic barrier
Once the syntax is out of the way, another barrier appears: the
semantic barrier. Specialists in different domains or countries
have developed their own jargon or vocabularies. Different words
might refer to the same concept, or worse, the same word could
have different meanings.
10 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
SOME WIDELY USED STANDARDS
• ISO 15022 is currently the predominant securities standard in
cross-border settlement, reconciliation and corporate action
processing. It was introduced around 1998 to replace ISO 7775,
which was much less structured and often omitted crucial
settlement information. The adoption of ISO 15022, mandated in
2003, has led to a dramatic increase in Straight Through
Processing (STP) rates. In settlement messages, for example, it’s
common to come across STP rates of more than 95 per cent. One
of the standard’s advantages is its data dictionary-based approach,
which enables reuse and standardisation of data across all
messages. About half of the 40 million messages that are
exchanged on the SWIFT network every day are ISO 15022.
• ISO 8583 is used for almost all credit and debit card transactions,
including ATMs. Several hundred million ISO 8583 messages are
exchanged daily between issuing and acquiring banks.
• FIX is the predominant standard of the securities front office.
Millions of indications of interest, trade instructions, executions
and so on are sent each day using the FIX protocol.
• FpML stands for Financial products Markup Language. It uses the
XML syntax and was specifically developed to describe the often
complicated contracts that form the base of financial derivative
products. It is widely used between broker-dealers and other securities industry players to exchange information on Swaps, CDOs
and so on.
• SWIFT proprietary, also known as MT messages, is the standard
for messaging in correspondent banking, foreign exchange and
documentary credits. Over 11,000 financial institutions around the
world use this standard to exchange millions of messages per day
over the SWIFT network.
• Proprietary domestic standards are also widely used. DTCC is an
example of a market infrastructure using proprietary standards.
Each day some 40 million messages are exchanged with DTCC to
clear and settle US domestic securities trades.
• XBRL is a flexible XML-based standard for exchanging business
information, which specialises in providing easy automation for
information found in unstructured documents.
CHAPTER 1 Lifting the Lid on ISO 20022 11
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
For example, what some players in the payments industry call
an Ordering Customer, others refer to as Payer or Payor, while
still others talk about a Payment Originator or Initiator. The context also plays a role here: the Payment Originator/Initiator is a
Debtor/Payor in a credit transfer, while that Payment Originator/
Initiator is a Creditor/Payee in a direct debit.
These different names create difficulties when you’re looking at
end-to-end integration. You need (expensive) expert knowledge
to understand what the specialists mean and how to reconcile the
information.
In order to understand the information exchanged in a particular
business domain, you need to be familiar with the details of the
specific syntaxes and the underlying semantics. This requires a
significant investment in time and technology.
ISO 20022 Basics
The previous section sketched two barriers to a common understanding of information shared between people and computers
involved in these processes: the use of different syntaxes and the
use of different semantics or interpretation of terms. ISO 20022
was designed to help overcome these barriers. In this section, we
see what makes ISO 20022 special.
ISO 20022 is the agreed methodology used by the financial industry to create consistent message standards across all the business
processes of the industry.
The ISO 20022 method is based on the concept of separate layers.
We distinguish between three layers: the top layer provides the
key business processes and concepts; the middle layer provides
logical data models and flows; and the bottom layer deals with
syntax.
Business processes and concepts
One of the key characteristics of the ISO 20022 methodology is
that there’s a distinction between the business and the way it’s
represented in a message, that is, the syntax. The ISO 20022
methodology starts with the creation of the business model. Put
simply, this is the definition of the activity or business process, 
12 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
the business roles and actors involved in that activity and the
business information needed for the activity to take place.
The business information is organised into business components
containing business elements. For example, when looking at the
processes involved in a credit transfer, key notions such as debtor
(the party that pays), creditor (the money receiver), debtor agent
(the bank of the debtor), creditor agent (the bank of the creditor)
and payment are identified. Each of these components has further details. Figure 1-1 shows a simplified business information
model, represented in Unified Modeling Language (UML).
Central is the payment itself, which is associated with the debtor
agent and creditor agent, which are both financial institutions.
The payment is also associated with a debtor and creditor, which
are both parties (in other words, persons or organisations, financial or other) which, in turn, have elements such as a name and
address. Additionally, these parties may be owners of an account.
Behind these elements lie further details. A payment, for example, contains elements such as currency and amount, a requested
execution date and settlement date, and remittance information.
Logical messages and API resources
independent of syntax
Using these business concepts, ISO 20022 then defines logical
models, which make up the middle layer.
A logical model is a description of all the information that’s
needed to perform a specific business activity, independent of
syntax. It’s composed of message or data components organised
in a hierarchical structure. A component contains one or more
elements and is derived from a business component by using one,
some or all of its elements. The logical structure for the excerpt of
the Customer Credit Transfer message can be seen in Figure 1-2.
The component CreditTransferTransactionInformation contains
four elements. Some of these, Debtor and DebtorAgent for example, require further definition and are components themselves.
Figure 1-2 is a simplified representation that does not show, for
example, whether elements are mandatory or optional, as is normally done at this level.
CHAPTER 1 Lifting the Lid on ISO 20022 13
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
FIGURE 1-1: A simplified business information model for a payment transaction.
14 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
FIGURE 1-2: Part of the logical message structure or API resource for a credit transfer.
CHAPTER 1 Lifting the Lid on ISO 20022 15
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Depending on the solution, these components may represent
messages or API resources.
Where the business activity requires a Credit Transfer to be managed through an API instead of messages, CreditTransferTransactionInformation could specify an API resource instead of a
message. In a later step, API resource actions can then be specified to manage the credit transfer resource (for example, create
the credit transfer, change it, view it and so on).
A key feature of ISO 20022 is the ability to reuse business and message components across all messages and API resources. Whether
it’s a credit transfer or a credit card payment, or a securities or
foreign exchange transaction that needs to be modelled, the component ‘PostalAddress’ can be used to express a party or financial
institution’s address where appropriate. Individual elements such
as ‘InterbankSettlementAmount’ and ‘InterbankSettlementDate’
can also be reused.
The syntax
As explained earlier, the ISO 20022 methodology is based on the
concept of separate layers. The business model and the logical
data model and flows are two of those layers. The third layer, the
syntax, is the physical representation of the logical model. ISO
20022 uses XML and specifies how to convert a message model to
XML. However, in a particular business domain, a message model
could be expressed in a syntax different from XML, for example,
the SWIFT proprietary syntax or the FIX syntax, if agreed.
It’s all in the repository
All the content described so far is stored in a common repository.
A dictionary forms part of this repository. The ISO 20022 dictionary, much like the Oxford English Dictionary, lists the name of
a component, its structure (with references to sub-components
that may be described elsewhere in the dictionary) and, most
importantly, what the component means and how it should be
used or interpreted. Just as with words in the English language,
the meaning often depends on the context. For instance, the specific meaning can depend on whether the context is a national
or international payment or a securities transaction on a stock
exchange. The entry for DebtorAgent tells you that it is the 
16 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
‘Financial institution servicing an account for the debtor.’ It also
tells you that when referring to a Debtor Agent, you should use
the structure called FinancialInstitutionIdentification, which
defines the data required to identify a financial institution – its
name and address, Business Identifier Code (BIC) and so on. If you
look up this message component in the dictionary you’ll find the
entry shown in Figure 1-3.
ISO 20022 standardises such components across all data exchanges
used in the financial industry. So, whenever a message is received
that mentions ‘debtor agent’ it’s clear what it means and what to
expect in terms of descriptive data about the debtor agent.
The crucial notion here is reusability. For example, the data
structure FinancialInstitutionIdentification (with all its substructures) is used to describe all financial institutions in ISO 20022
messages. Similarly, the message component DebtorAgent is used
across all financial data exchanges whenever a financial institution plays that role in a transaction.
Currently, the ISO 20022 repository holds around 775 business
components and more than 800 message definitions.
FIGURE 1-3: The ISO 20022 web query tool showing details of a message
component.
CHAPTER 1 Lifting the Lid on ISO 20022 17
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
What Makes ISO 20022 So Useful?
ISO 20022 offers three things:
» A formal business model for the financial services industry,
which can be used as a reference for many different
purposes, including building standardised messages and
APIs (Application Programme Interfaces).
» A method to develop well-structured financial messages and
API resources (as described in the previous section).
» A way to unify the many existing standards.
A message definition in any existing standard can be looked at
logically as a description of what data is exchanged in the message, its structure and what it means. Such a ‘logical’ message
definition can be mapped to the business definitions of ISO 20022.
This is critical in making standards interoperable: it enables the
use of multiple standards and multiple syntaxes to support the
same business process, as information from these can be mapped
unambiguously to the business process itself. So, the advantages
of ISO 20022 over other standards fall into two categories: those
concerned with using the standard itself, and those concerned
with interoperability with other standards and APIs.
Using ISO 20022
The advantages of using ISO 20022 fall into three main categories:
linking messages to business processes; reusing components; and
business-driven models that allow for the generation of XML for
messaging solutions and JSON Schemas for RESTful API solutions.
Read on for more details.
Linking messages to business processes
Each part of an ISO 20022 message, or API resource, is linked to
business components (in the model) that are meaningful and easily recognisable to users and can be linked to the data in backoffice applications.
Reusing components that are well
documented and structured
Since the components and elements are reused across messages
and API resources, institutions need to map them only once to 
18 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
their internal data structures. It’s therefore much easier to introduce new messages or resources as most of the components will
already be known and mapped to back-office applications. Maintenance is also a lot easier, since most of the changes can be made
at the component level.
Appreciating the benefits of XML syntax
While the key feature of ISO 20022 is the use of common business
models, when the XML syntax is used, it also brings significant
benefits. The message format description is contained in an XML
schema. This file is machine readable, so implementation of new
messages, or changes to existing messages, requires less manual
effort. It also enables easy manipulation of messages by most
modern software, including mapping the information to other
formats and standards.
XML is an international open standard, which means that it enjoys
widespread support across industry boundaries and gets extensive support from vendors. Being an international standard also
means that a wide variety of XML editing, document management, validation and other off-the-shelf tools are available.
These tools allow the automatic injection of message definitions
and lower the cost for their validation and their integration into
back-office systems.
Appreciating the benefits of JSON
One alternate format that’s gaining more and more momentum is JSON (JavaScript Object Notation). JSON is a lightweight
data-interchange open standard. It’s easy for humans to read and
write and it’s easy for machines to manage. It’s widely used for
interacting with APIs on the web. Consequently, many supporting
tools are available.
ABOUT XML, XML SCHEMAS
AND JSON
The eXtensible Markup Language (XML) is a simple text-based format
for representing structured information. XML uses tags set between
angled brackets to identify items of information. Each data item is
enclosed by a pair of opening and closing tags. The combination of
opening and closing tags and the data they contain is called an 
CHAPTER 1 Lifting the Lid on ISO 20022 19
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
element. Elements can contain other elements, to group related information together, for example:
<address>
   <number>1</number>
   <street>Short Lane</street>
   <city>London</city>
</address>
One advantage of XML is that it is (reasonably) easy for people to read
and understand. However, this readability comes at a cost: XML is
sometimes criticised for being more verbose than other syntaxes and
therefore less efficient to transmit and store. Compression tools can
overcome this problem, lessening its impact on user communities
where a more compact syntax is needed, for example, in (pre-) trade
messages for securities exchanges, where microseconds count.
An XML schema sets out the permitted structure for an XML document
(or message). It defines, among other things, which elements are
allowed in a document, the order in which they should appear, which
are mandatory and which are optional. XML schemas can be used by
a computer to check whether a message conforms to its definition or
not. The ISO 20022 methodology describes how to generate an XML
schema from a logical message definition, for messages that will use
the XML syntax. XML schemas are provided to formally define the
structure of all ISO 20022 XML messages.
JSON (Java Script Object Notation) is a simple text-based format for
representing structured information.
JSON uses less markup than XML because there are no end tags (compare it to the XML sample above). Element names aren’t wrapped
inside ‘<’ and ‘>.’ Name and value are separated by a colon ‘:’ Text values are wrapped inside a single quote, numbers inside a double
quote. Aside from that, JSON instances are like XML instances.
<address>:
   number: “1”
   street: ’Short Lane’
   city: ’London’
(continued)
20 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
ISO 20022 and other standards
ISO 20022 covers the entire financial industry, enabling a common
understanding and interpretation of information across diverse
areas such as foreign exchange trading and credit card payments.
One big advantage is that this facilitates mapping between standards. For example, the MT103 Single Customer Credit Transfer
field 52a Ordering Institution and the ISO 20022 DebtorAgent element are structured differently, but still describe essentially the
same business concept: the financial institution that services the
account of the ordering customer (or debtor). Therefore, both can
be mapped to the same ISO 20022 business component. This is
a powerful concept, because it lays the foundation for different
standards to be able to work with each other (known as interoperability). We get into the details of interoperability in the following
chapters. The main point here is that such mapping makes life a
lot easier for all the parts involved in providing such interoperability: applications, translation services and so on. Such interoperability enables automated transfer and straight-through
processing across entire processing chains.
A JSON schema, similar to an XML schema, sets out the permitted
structure for a JSON document. It defines which elements are allowed
in a document, the order in which they should appear, which are
mandatory, which are optional and so on.
JSON schemas can be used by a computer to check whether a document conforms to its definition or not. The ISO 20022 methodology
describes how to generate a JSON schema from a logical model.
JSON is the predominant syntax used for API resource definitions and
thus by extension, in RESTful APIs.
(continued)
CHAPTER 2 Putting ISO 20022 into Practice 21
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Chapter 2
IN THIS CHAPTER
» Examining who uses ISO 20022 today
» Understanding standards coexistence
» Grasping the latest adoption plans in
payments and securities markets
» Undertaking ISO 20022 implementation
Putting ISO 20022
into Practice
I
SO 20022 is really catching on. Many large financial infrastructures, financial institutions and user communities are using
ISO 20022 for their payments, FX and securities businesses.
Just as importantly, many other existing standards are now being
mapped to ISO 20022.
A global ISO 20022 programme is underway to assist all banks
and financial institutions to adopt ISO 20022 for all payments and
reporting exchanges, which will be completed in 2025. You can
learn more about this at https://www.swift.com/standards/
iso-20022/get-ready-iso-20022-cbpr.
Checking Out Payments, Funds &
Securities, Forex, Cards and Trade
ISO 20022 organises financial definitions in business areas  –
well-recognised functional domains in the industry. These business areas are uniquely identified by four-character codes called 
22 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
business area codes. The ISO 20022 catalogue includes over
800 messages covering the following business areas:
» acmt: Account Management
» auth: Authorities Communications
» caaa: Acceptor to Acquirer Card Transactions
» cain: Acquirer to Issuer Card Transactions
» catm: Card Terminal Management
» catp: ATM Card Transactions
» caam: ATM Management
» pacs: Payments Clearing and Settlement
» pain: Payments Initiation
» camt: Cash Management
» remt: Payments Remittance Advice
» fxtr: Foreign Exchange Trade
» colr: Collateral Management
» setr: Securities Trade
» secl: Securities Clearing
» sese: Securities Settlement
» semt: Securities Management
» seev: Securities Events
» tsin: Trade Services Initiation
» tsmt: Trade Services Management
» reda: Reference Data
Payments
ISO 20022 messages are available for the complete end-to-end
payments chain: customer to bank (payment), bank to bank
(payment clearing and settlement) and reporting (cash management). Messages are also available for supporting functions such
as exceptions and investigations, bank account management,
remittance advice, direct debit mandate management and regulatory reporting. The coverage is continuously expanding, driven
by industry requirements. Amongst the big drivers for adopting
ISO 20022 in the payments arena are the market infrastructure 
CHAPTER 2 Putting ISO 20022 into Practice 23
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
adoption programmes in all reserve currency markets and others,
as well as the global ISO 20022 programme for cross-border payments (see www.swift.com).
Funds
ISO 20022 messages are used for fund orders, transfers, reconciliation, price reporting and fund cash forecast reports. Messages
also support the requirements to handle the complexity for hedge
funds and the fund processing passport (FPP) information. The
main driver in this business area is the desire to eliminate fax
or email communication and manual processes, and to facilitate
straight-through processing (STP).
Securities clearing and settlement,
and corporate actions
Recent years have seen the creation of new global and regional
market infrastructures (MI) to facilitate the clearing and settlement of securities and other instruments. In addition, many
existing national MIs are facing significant investments as they
prepare to enable cross-border access and cater for the needs
of foreign participants. Both existing and new MIs will have to
decide which messaging standard/syntax to use in communication with their participants.
A large number have chosen ISO 20022, including T2S (TARGET2-
Securities), the US Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation
(DTCC), China Central Securities Depositary and Clearing Co.
(CCDC) and JASDEC, the Japanese Central Securities Depository
and, more recently, the Euro Collateral Management System
(ECMS).
Whenever necessary, new ISO 20022 messages have also been
developed to address the specific business functions covered by
these MIs.
Many players affected by these market infrastructure projects are
planning to implement the ISO 20022 messages before the scheduled live dates of the MIs, to ensure that they’re ready.
An important factor in the adoption of ISO 20022 in the securities industry was the Giovannini Protocol. This protocol aimed to
harmonise the clearing and settlement of securities in Europe by 
24 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
eliminating several barriers to efficient cross-border processing.
One of these barriers (Barrier 1; see the Glossary) is the different standards and communication protocols used for accessing
Central Securities Depositories (CSD). The industry specified that
CSDs had to support the use of ISO messages for the clearing and
settlement of European cross-border securities transactions.
Those flows that are common across MIs are covered by both ISO
15022 and ISO 20022, in an interoperable way.
The same is true for the asset servicing business, where the
industry is looking to automate the generation of corporate action
information. The basic functionality is covered by both standards.
Additional functionality, for example, proxy voting, has only been
developed in ISO 20022.
A more recent catalyst for the use of ISO 20022 messages is the
choice of ISO 20022 by financial authorities for regulatory reporting purposes. In Europe, the European Central Bank, the Bank
of England and the European Securities and Markets Authority
(ESMA) have already opted for ISO 20022. In the US, the Commodities Futures Commission (CFTC) and the Securities Exchanges
Commission (SEC) are mandating the use of ISO 20022 for derivatives reporting by 2023, and similar mandates are expected in
Canada, Singapore, Australia, Hong Kong and Japan.
Cards
Since 2010, the development of cards-related ISO 20022 messages
has been booming. As of 2016, a portfolio of about 60 messages
has been available to support acceptor to acquirer POI activities
and POI terminal management, ATM interface for transaction
processing and ATM management, and a first series of acquirer to
issuer card messages aiming at providing an ISO 20022 alternative to the ISO 8583 standard.
Forex
Market infrastructures, such as CLS and China Foreign Exchange
Trade System (CFETS), use ISO 20022 messages to exchange
critical post trade foreign exchange information with their
participants.
Trade
In the trade services area, a suite of ISO 20022 messages has
been developed that cover e-invoice, invoice financing, demand 
CHAPTER 2 Putting ISO 20022 into Practice 25
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
guarantees and standby letters of credit, as well as factoring
services.
Understanding How Standards Coexist
Will the whole world speak English one day, replacing native
languages? Who knows? Similarly, although it would be great
to all speak the same language in the Financial Industry, different standards and syntaxes are used for the time being . . . and
they work! For example, FIX, FpML, SWIFT proprietary and many
domestic standards are in use and generally do a good job at serving specific goals and business domains.
However, widespread adoption of ISO 20022 will have significant
benefits for individual firms and the financial system, for example
by enriching the data carried in payments messages, improving
compatibility across technology platforms and creating opportunities for collaboration and innovation.
While standards, like languages, evolve over time, real migrations
are rare. Check out some examples of standards (and migrations
from older, so-called legacy standards to new ones) in the wider
world:
» Left-hand versus right-hand drive: About half of the world
drives on the left-hand side of the road and the other half
drives on the right-hand side. Clearly, it would be more
efficient if we all drove on the same side of the road: there’d
be no need to make cars in two versions, bigger markets for
used cars, no adaptation for continental Europeans who
choose to live in the UK, or for retired London investment
bankers starting wine farms in France or Italy! Still, we know
of only two documented cases of migration: Sweden
changing to the right-hand side in 1966 and Samoa to the
left-hand side in 2009.
» Railway gauges: The initial free-for-all has given way to a
clear global standard (the 4 ft 8½ in Stephenson standard).
There have been migrations, notably the American South
after the Civil War and many of the early railways in Britain,
like Brunel’s Great Western Railway. Plenty of other gauges
are still in use: Russia, Iberia and parts of Australia, for
example, still use much wider gauges.
26 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
» Alphabets and characters: Large parts of the world use
non-Latin character sets to write: Russia, Japan, China and
the Arab world to name just a few. Again, there have been
migrations, notably the migration of Turkey to the Latin
character set by Atatürk, but the use of non-Latin characters
appears well-entrenched. ICANN (Internet Corporation for
Assigned Names and Numbers) has now enabled the use of
Arab and Chinese character domain names.
You can find plenty more examples: voltage and electricity plugs,
ring binders, computer keyboards (QWERTY versus AZERTY) and
so on. While you can make a clear case for a single global standard
for all these cases, differences persist, and migrations are rare.
Surprisingly, migration costs are often substantial due to hardware replacement, retraining, conversion of existing data and
so on.
Financial standards are subject to the same dynamics. Financial
institutions have invested enormous resources in building systems that use existing standards. It’s certainly possible to replace
one standard with another, as the migration of the securities
industry from ISO 7775 to ISO 15022 has proven, but there needs
to be a strong business case to do so.
Why not force migration to ISO 20022?
Why doesn’t the French or German government force their population to abandon their native language and only speak English?
Well, because apart from the fact that their voters would throw
them out of office in the blink of an eye, it would cost too much
and cause far too much trouble to be worth doing – that’s why.
Already today the financial community is a dominant user of ISO
financial services standards.
It worked for ISO 7775 to ISO 15022,
didn’t it?
Indeed, it did. In 2004, the securities industry completed a migration from the legacy ISO 7775 standard to ISO 15022  – a more
modern and functionally superior messaging standard. This
migration brought enormous benefits to the community, as
processing important information was made mandatory in messages. This enabled the securities clearing and settlement industry
to increase straight-through processing rates from around 60 to 
CHAPTER 2 Putting ISO 20022 into Practice 27
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
70 per cent to currently more than 95 per cent, which translates
into billions of savings in operating cost reductions. So, although
securities players had to change their back-office systems and
communication interfaces, the benefits of adopting the new standard more than outweighed the substantial migration cost.
The migration to an updated standard has already taken place for
some parts of the securities industry. The ISO 15022 messages
for corporate actions and securities settlement and reconciliation
that replaced ISO 7775 are already well-structured and based on
a data dictionary. For players with large legacy systems in these
spaces, the benefits of migration from ISO 15022 to ISO 20022
may not outweigh the cost. Obviously, it’s a different story for
areas like investment funds and asset servicing (proxy voting, for
example), where ISO 20022 messages offer significant benefits
over current practice, which largely revolves around fax, phone
and file transfer.
Wouldn’t these securities players find it easier to have everything
in ISO 20022? Probably. But the reality is that today, the securities
industry is used to dealing with multiple formats, including a host
of domestic proprietary ones, and the business case for a forced
industry wide migration in securities markets is weak.
What about MT 103s and ISO 20022
messages?
In payments it’s a different story.
For European retail payments, the first migration to ISO 20022
is now complete. Financial institutions in Europe have adopted
ISO 20022 messages, supported with specific implementation
guidelines, to meet the specific Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA)
community requirements. ISO 20022 is now the common standard for SEPA compliant payments and has replaced a multitude
of domestic standards.
As adoption progresses further, some players will find it easier
to use ISO 20022 for all their interbank payments. Furthermore,
banks that have gone through an implementation in the interbank
area are also starting to look at implementation in the payment
initiation and reporting space. By the end of 2025, adoption of
ISO 20022 throughout the correspondent banking domain will be
complete.
28 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
ISO 20022 for Cross-border
Payments – Preparation Starts Now
By the end of 2025, ISO 20022 will have become the de facto standard for global cross-border payments. The payments world will
enjoy some specific advantages:
» Better, richer, higher-quality data exchanges: ISO 20022
messages can contain more and richer data than their MT
equivalent. This richer data will meet some long-term
demand from customers (who want more remittance
information carried with the payment instruction), regulators
and risk managers (who want better assurance that screening and testing measures are effective) and business
managers (who want to be able to mine databases of
payments for insights into customer preferences).
» New capabilities: ISO 20022 messages, with their richer and
better-structured data content, offer line-of-business
managers the ability to improve and innovate banking
products faster and better than MTs.
» Improved operational efficiency: ISO 20022 messages will
lead to higher end-to-end STP rates, with fewer false
positives arising from poor-quality risk-bearing information
in payments-related exchanges.
Bearing these clear goals in mind, the community of financial institutions involved in payments and reporting has joined
many of the world’s premier payments market infrastructures
(including the Federal Reserve and The Clearing House in the
US, the Bank of England in the UK, the Eurosystem in the EU
and HKICL in Hong Kong) in transitioning to ISO 20022 in the
same time frame. In scope is the entire network of more than
11,000 banks involved in interbank (and inter-institution) payments on the SWIFT platform, as well as the banks connected to
the 100+ market infrastructures that are adopting or planning to
adopt ISO 20022.
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
CHAPTER 2 Putting ISO 20022 into Practice 29
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
From Coexistence to Interoperability
To continue with our language analogy, does everyone use
translators to communicate with foreigners? Of course not; most
people have some knowledge of other languages and sometimes one of the participants in the conversation will revert to an
‘internal’ translation and switch to the language of the conversation partner. Often, both participants settle on a lingua franca
(English, Swahili, Hindi), whereby both parties translate internally to and from this third language. Life is also made easier by
the fact that most service providers (telecommunications, banks,
governments) allow customers to work with them in the language
of their choice.
Financial institutions are no different. Many use their own internal formats to store information and exchange it between applications. They then map this information to whatever format is
needed for the outside world. Even when these outside formats
change, they often continue to use the old version internally and
map it to the new format before sending it out. It’s true that the
securities industry migrated from ISO 7775 to ISO 15022 in 2004,
but many securities players still use ISO 7775 internally and with
some of their customers. Similarly, in 2003, SWIFT replaced its
workhorse MT 100 Customer Transfer with a new format, the
MT 103 Single Customer Credit Transfer, but several institutions
still use the MT 100 internally. Typically, these institutions find it
cheaper to map/transform the information to and from the new
format than to change their legacy applications.
For centuries, people dreamt of a common language (for example, Esperanto) to breach the communication gap. However, this
dream never materialised. Standardisers shared a similar dream
over 10 years ago and are now facing the same issue: multiple
standards aren’t going away any time soon. Therefore, coexistence isn’t a short-term situation, and the challenge becomes one
of interoperability between different standards.
Interoperability products and services
Interoperability refers to the seamless execution of a business process by various counterparties with different levels of automation
and time-to-market requirements or capacity. There are many 
30 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
aspects to interoperability, but the ability to map different messaging standards is an important element.
Rapid developments in software technology make mapping
increasingly feasible and cheap. Given a set of rules, interoperability
tools (such as middleware components) can easily transform
information from one message standard/syntax to another. Let’s
take an example of the simple credit transfer message mentioned
in Chapter 1.
Figure 2-1 illustrates the debtor and debtor agent details as shown
in the form of a SWIFT MT 103 and an ISO 20022 pacs.008 message. Arrows represent the mapping of data from one message to
the other.
FIGURE 2-1: Mapping an MT103 to an ISO 20022 Credit Transfer.
CHAPTER 2 Putting ISO 20022 into Practice 31
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Middleware is software that can adapt the outputs of one system to the inputs of another, so that they can communicate. What
middleware needs is a set of mapping rules that tells it to take
the information from one field in the MT message and move it
to the correct corresponding element in the ISO 20022 message.
In the first example, the information in field ‘:52A:’ is moved to
the BIC element in the component called ‘DebtorAgent’. The mapping is straightforward as this field in MT has only one equivalent
element in the ISO 20022 message.
In the second example, the information on the first line of field
‘:50F:’ is moved to the account identification element in the component called ‘DebtorAccount’.
The third example is more complex: part of the information in
the MT field :50F: has to be split into the ISO Name and PostalAddress elements in the component called ‘Debtor’. Sometimes
information may not fit in the field or the element in the destination message, in which case the overflow needs to be inserted
elsewhere or dropped. The good news is that such mapping and
translations are increasingly available between commonly used
standards, and interoperability tools (such as integration components) enable users to configure their middleware to execute
such mappings. The increasing use and availability of electronic
dictionaries makes this even easier.
ISO 20022, the foundation
of interoperability
We’ve claimed that ISO 20022 is the way to unify standards and
syntaxes, and we’ve explained how ISO 20022 can interoperate
with other standards. We’ll now explain how ISO 20022 can further facilitate interoperability by acting as an interoperability hub.
In foreign exchange, deals involving less common currency
pairs are generally carried out over a hub (in this case, a trading portal), usually in US dollars (USD) or in Euros (EUR). For
example, the Thai Baht is first converted into USD, after which
the USD can be traded for, say, Bolivian Pesos. Similarly, translation and mapping rules are generally only available between the
most common standards. This is where ISO 20022 increasingly
plays the role of interoperability hub; work is underway to map
the information in many standards into ISO 20022.
32 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Look at the example of the International Payments Framework
(IPF), in which two infrastructures on different continents use
different syntaxes and where ISO 20022 enables translation. USD
transfers for Europe initiated in the US Automated Clearing House
(ACH), using the NACHA proprietary format will first be mapped
into ISO 20022 as a common format. The message is then sent to
the European participants, who will map the incoming ISO 20022
message into an outgoing ISO 20022 transfer message. You can
see an example of this mapping system in Figure 2-2.
ISO 20022 Implementation
As ISO 20022 adoption increases across the Financial Industry,
it will impact different types of players in a variety of ways. The
following sections cover some of the main cases.
Small player in a single business area
with mature standards
If you’re a small player that’s active in a single business area,
then generally you should be able to adopt ISO 20022 at your own
pace (as long as you’re fully ready to support payments by the
end of 2025). Most large counterparties and service providers are
equipped to continue to support existing formats, for example, by
using the interoperability tools described earlier in the chapter.
Focused player in a business where ISO
20022 standards are heavily used
Focused players in areas such as European retail payments or the
funds industry need ISO 20022 to operate. Players with legacy
systems that use existing standards (domestic, proprietary or
other) may decide not to migrate these systems to ISO 20022, but
instead rely on mapping at the middleware level.
FIGURE 2-2: Mapping from a US NACHA payment to a European ISO 20022
message.
CHAPTER 2 Putting ISO 20022 into Practice 33
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
For players facing new investments, however, it makes sense
to be ISO 20022 compatible from the start. Examples could
be transfer agents in Asia that are making investments to replace
the current fax and phone communications, and participants of
securities or FX market infrastructures.
A side-benefit of the ISO 20022 approach for new players is that
you can use all of the existing data definitions from published
ISO 20022 content as the basis for defining your internal data
structures. This is possible thanks to the separation between the
semantic layer and the message layer and the consistent usage of
the dictionary.
Implementers need to maintain appropriate decoupling of the
internal versus external structures through proper architectural
layers but using internal structures close to the standard significantly simplifies integration tasks, since a lot of the mappings
would become very straightforward.
Global financial institution that’s active
in many businesses
You deal with a multiplicity of languages and formats on a daily
basis: many different messaging formats across geographies
and businesses, and large complex legacy systems that are very
expensive to change. It is also likely that your institution already
uses enterprise scale middleware – sometimes known as Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) software – to connect applications and communications interfaces, mapping and transforming
information as needed. In a highly simplified form, your overall
architecture could look similar to Figure 2-3.
This approach insulates your channels and back-office applications from changes in the standard by isolating ISO 20022-
specific definitions and processing in the EAI software. It also
enables you to reuse common functionality, such as network connectivity, across multiple implementations. Typical EAI software
includes features for mapping data from proprietary internal
formats or other standards to and from ISO 20022, enriching messages with data from other systems and orchestrating message
flows. EAI also features a range of adaptors that connect to standard data exchange or storage mechanisms – databases, message
queues, mail servers and so on – and standard software applications, such as Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems.
34 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Implementation Considerations
You have many questions to consider when implementing the ISO
20022 standard, including:
» Which business processes does ISO 20022 support?
» What are the touchpoints in my organisation and my
application landscape?
» How will I get message data into – and out of – my
applications?
» What data do I need to fulfil the minimum requirements of
the messages I’ll generate? (This may not just be the
mandatory fields; depending on the context in which the
message is to be used and the service to be offered, other
data may also be required.)
» Where can I find the data – is it in my back-office system
already? If not, can I find it elsewhere and use my EAI’s
enrichment capability to add it to a message?
» What business event should trigger the production of
outgoing messages?
» What processing steps are required? For example, do I need
to batch and un-batch messages?
» Is manual authorisation of messages required?
FIGURE 2-3: Enterprise Application Integration software (middleware)
connects applications to each other and to external networks such as SWIFT.
CHAPTER 2 Putting ISO 20022 into Practice 35
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
» What should I do with invalid or rejected messages?
» If my solution requires a conversational message processing
style (request-response), what do I need to do to accept the
request and create the response?
» What is the messaging style? (Depending on the type of
solution, messages may be exchanged with partners
interactively, on a store-and-forward basis or in batch files.)
By considering these questions, it should be possible to decide
on the most efficient way to implement an ISO 20022 messaging solution and determine the impact on existing systems and
processes. In some cases – for example, when replacing a legacy format with ISO 20022 – much of the ‘plumbing’ will already
exist and the principal effort will be in adapting to the new message formats and connectivity requirements. In other cases – for
example, implementing a new solution for a new market – the
impact on the existing landscape may be more dramatic. The good
news is that, using an EAI-based approach, much of the logic
built for one solution can be reused in another. Therefore, the
effort of implementing new solutions decreases dramatically over
time. It’s possible to have an overall strategic picture of ISO 20022
adoption, towards which you migrate piecemeal, responding to
business drivers – but with each implementation smoothing the
way for those that follow.
Cost of implementation
How much does implementation cost? This is a difficult question
because no two institutions are alike. However, the fact that ISO
20022 mostly uses XML syntax does help, not only because the
popularity of XML has driven commoditisation in the XML tools
market, and first-class integration tools are available from many
vendors and open-source projects; but also because XML skills are
increasingly easy to find. The balance of implementation cost has,
therefore, tilted away from technology concerns towards business
analysis. From a business analysis point of view, the consistency
across data element definitions enforced by the dictionary (and
the separation of the semantic layer) significantly simplifies the
exercise, especially as people build up ISO 20022-specific skills.
With the critical mass that ISO 20022 has in the industry, the likelihood of reusing content you’ve seen before is very high indeed.
36 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Building for the future
ISO 20022 messages and API resources are designed to support
current and future business needs around the world. To this end,
specifications include international characters in narrative fields,
long identifiers and references, large monetary amounts and precise interest and exchange rates. If you’re a technical architect
or a designer of back-office systems, you should consider both
the semantics of ISO 20022, which provide an internationally
agreed common vocabulary for financial industry concepts, and
the physical forms in which these concepts are represented. In
this way, you can guarantee that systems will be aligned with ISO
20022 for messaging and API resources purposes, but also with
the industry’s collective wisdom regarding the best ways to represent financial data for present and future needs.
CHAPTER 3 Understanding the ISO 20022 Organisation 37
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Chapter 3
IN THIS CHAPTER
» Delving into ISO 20022 governance
» Explaining the role of the Registration
Authority
» Meeting the technical support group
Understanding the ISO
20022 Organisation
The ISO 20022 standard is open, which means that any
organisation can develop and improve the ISO 20022 catalogue. You don’t need to be affiliated with ISO, but you are
obliged to comply with the rules set out in the ISO 20022 standard. The standard describes the method to develop the messages,
definitions, and API resources as well as the process to get them
approved and published as part of the official portfolio of ISO
20022 publications.
Thirty-seven organisations have already embarked on developing
ISO 20022 messages.
A governance structure containing a series of bodies and procedures has been created to monitor the use of the standard and to
help organisations develop successful and compliant messages.
You can find more information at www.iso20022.org.
In this chapter we describe the process for the development of a
new set of messages, API resources and the relevant bodies for
each of the steps.
38 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Business Justification Submission
and Approval
If you want to develop ISO 20022 messages, or API resources, you
first must introduce a business justification describing the scope
and purpose of the messages or resource and their benefits for
future users. The business justification is reviewed and approved
by the ISO 20022 Registration Management Group (RMG). The
RMG is the highest ISO 20022 body supervising the overall process. It’s composed of senior industry experts representing countries or international organisations.
The RMG analyse your business justification and assess the
need for the message or API resource development, check that
the messages or resources don’t overlap with existing ISO 20022
messages or resources, and then verify their attractiveness for the
international financial community. Specifically, the RMG judges
whether the application meets key criteria. These include:
» Is there a clear business need for these messages or API
resources?
» Does the scope address the requirements of the targeted
users?
For updates or changes to existing messages or API resources,
a Change Request (CR) needs to be submitted. The submission
of a CR is either done by the original submitter of the Business
Justification (BJ) for that message, message set, or API resource,
or by a group of submitters that includes the original submitter
of the BJ.
Developing Candidate ISO 20022
Messages and API Resources
Approval of your business justification gives you the green light to
start developing the messages or API resources. Before you start,
you need to contact the ISO 20022 Registration Authority (RA).
CHAPTER 3 Understanding the ISO 20022 Organisation 39
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
The RA is the guardian of the ISO 20022 repository, which includes
all existing ISO 20022 messages, API resources and the dictionary
of ISO 20022 components. SWIFT acts as the RA under a contractual agreement with ISO.
The RA provides the input and guidelines required to develop
syntax independent logical message models or API resources. For
this, you can reuse existing ISO 20022 message components or
ask the RA to create new components, if necessary.
You need a modelling tool to design the message models. SWIFT
can provide you with the Standards Editors tool, which was
developed by SWIFT to use for its own development of ISO 20022
message models and, in its role of ISO 20022 RA, to verify the
compliance of ISO 20022 message models and API resources submitted by others.
Where possible, the RA assists submitting organisations during the development of the message models or API resources, to
ensure that they’re adhering to rules, and to answer questions.
When the message models or API resources are ready (these are
called candidate ISO 20022 messages or resources), the RA validates
their compliance and generates evaluation documentation, which
includes the full description of your messages and the derived ISO
20022 XML or API resources and the derived JSON schemas.
Approving Candidate ISO 20022 Messages
and API Resources
The RA distributes the evaluation documentation to the appropriate ISO 20022 Standards Evaluation Groups (SEGs) for validation. The SEGs are groups of industry experts, representing the
(future) users of ISO 20022 messages. There are currently five
SEGs, each covering a specific business domain: payments, securities (including derivatives), foreign exchange, trade services
and cards.
Over 400 experts, representing 23 countries and 18 international
organisations, currently participate in the ISO 20022 SEGs. Their
role is to ensure that your candidate messages and API resources
truly address the requirements of the community of users they
represent.
40 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
You’re required to participate in the evaluation of your candidate
messages or API resources. The SEG may require that you make
some changes to ensure future adoption of your messages or API
resources by the international community.
Publishing ISO 20022 Messages
and API Resources
Upon approval by the SEG, your messages or API resources become
ISO 20022 compliant messages or resources.
The RA will officially register your messages, or API resources,
and any new components in the ISO 20022 repository, and publish them at www.iso20022.org. The messages or API resources
and their schemas are made available, free of charge, to the entire
community, but you remain the owner of the messages or API
resources, and you’ll be contacted in case users request a modification to the messages or API resources.
MEETING THE TECHNICAL
SUPPORT GROUP (TSG)
One more ISO 20022 group might be of interest to you.
The Technical Support Group advises submitting organisations, the
RMG, the RA and the SEGs on the most appropriate and consistent
interpretation of the ISO 20022 standard. You can get in touch via
www.iso20022.org/contact-us.
CHAPTER 4 A Perfect Partnership: ISO 20022 and SWIFT 41
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Chapter 4
IN THIS CHAPTER
» Understanding SWIFT’s role in the ISO
20022 standard
» Discovering tools and services for
submitters
» Using tools and services for
implementers
A Perfect Partnership:
ISO 20022 and SWIFT
I
SO 20022 grew out of a previous standard in the securities
messaging space, ISO 15022. SWIFT was one of the key
contributors to ISO 15022 and maintained this leading role in
the development of ISO 20022. This chapter outlines SWIFT’s role
in the development of ISO 20022, and the services SWIFT offers to
standard setters and to users of the standard.
Understanding SWIFT’s Role in the ISO
20022 Standard
SWIFT’s commitment to ISO 20022 is broad and deep. In 2000,
SWIFT drafted the original ISO 20022 specification as part of the
ISO working group that developed the standard.
In June 2004, SWIFT was appointed Registration Authority (RA)
for the standard – a role that SWIFT continues to fulfil. The RA
is responsible for maintaining and publishing the central repository of ISO 20022 content and ensuring its integrity. The first formal edition of the standard was approved and published by ISO
in December of 2004. Besides the RA support for message and 
42 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
definition development explained in the previous chapter, SWIFT,
in its role of RA, also developed and continues to support and
update ISO 20022 web resources, including www.iso20022.org
and the web query tool shown in Chapter 1.
The RMG  – the body responsible for the overall supervision
of the registration process – was formed in January 2005. SWIFT
sends delegations representing both the RA and SWIFT to RMG
meetings.
In June 2005, the first two ISO 20022 Standards Evaluation
Groups (SEG) were formed for the business domains of Payments
and Securities. In 2006, two more SEGs were formed for Trade
and Foreign Exchange business, followed in 2008 by a new SEG
for Cards. In 2016, a specific Derivatives sub-SEG was created
to work within the Securities SEG.  The role of the SEGs is to
review submitted message definitions in terms of their business
content – SWIFT is represented on all SEGs.
In addition to the expertise that SWIFT, as RA, contributes to
ensure the validity of the business content of the standard, SWIFT
is also active on the technical front. It participates in periodic
technical reviews of different aspects of the standard to ensure
feedback is considered and that it improves and adapts to constantly changing business, market and technology environments.
In many ways, SWIFT’s work is never done!
The ISO 20022 standard makes rigorous demands on the quality of submitted content. The RA is responsible for ensuring that
content meets these demands before it’s officially registered.
SWIFT is the major submitter of content to the standard.
Seventy-five per cent of the message definitions currently
included in the ISO 20022 catalogue were developed by SWIFT,
sometimes on behalf of other submitting organisations. SWIFT
also actively promotes ISO 20022 in its commercial offerings, in
the media and at industry events.
SWIFT also offers several tools and services for developers of
ISO 20022 content, to help submitting organisations develop and
submit content that conforms to the standard.
CHAPTER 4 A Perfect Partnership: ISO 20022 and SWIFT 43
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Standards Editor
The Standards Editor is a customised modelling tool that’s used
within SWIFT to create standards content in the ISO 20022 repository and to generate documentation and XML schemas. SWIFT
provides a ‘lite’ version of the same tool, called the Editor, which
can be used by other submitting organisations.
SWIFTNet
SWIFTNet is SWIFT’s secure IP network, which connects over
11,000 financial institutions and corporations around the world.
SWIFT offers a variety of services over SWIFTNet for users of ISO
20022 messages, including interactive messaging (which includes
message validation) and file transfer.
For more information about SWIFT’s network services, visit www.
swift.com.
Implementation tools and services
Many tools exist to support coexistence and interoperability.
Some of these tools are provided directly by SWIFT, but many
others are available from SWIFT partners with SWIFT providing
key elements and input.
Translation and mapping rules
For some key areas, such as high-value payments, SWIFT has
developed mapping rules between SWIFT’s existing and widely
used MT messages and ISO 20022 messages. These were developed with key members of the SWIFT community and are made
available to members and partners on MyStandards.
Machine readable standards definitions
You can download the ISO 20022 message models and dictionary
that are the source for ISO 20022 content from www.iso20022.
org, where you will also find the message schemas and
documentation. In addition, SWIFT can provide several useful
representations of the ISO 20022 content, which can be used to
accelerate the development of artefacts such as input screens and
user documentation.
44 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Middleware and interface products
SWIFT enables its own interface products to support ISO 20022,
as do many other vendors of connectivity and middleware
products.
Standards management tools
MyStandards is a web-based platform provided by SWIFT to
facilitate the management and implementation of ISO 20022 (and
FIN MT) standards and related market practice information.
Everyone can browse the ISO 20022 standards in MyStandards on
www.swift.com/mystandards.
Implementation consultancy
SWIFT provides a variety of consulting offerings for ISO 20022
implementation.
Training
SWIFT provides a comprehensive range of self-study modules
covering all aspects of ISO 20022 development and implementation. You can find it at https://www.swift.com/our-solutions/
services/swiftsmart.
As the use of ISO 20022 messaging has increased over the last
few years, developing a consistent approach for implementation of ISO 20022 solutions has become increasingly important.
Consistency is required both in the way that message standards
are used and how releases are managed.
In order to promote harmonisation, SWIFT has launched an
industry programme to ensure a cost-effective and seamless
adoption of ISO 20022 by the Payments community.
You can see more details at www.swift.com/standards/iso20022-harmonisation-programme.
CHAPTER 5 Ten Reasons to Adopt ISO 20022 45
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Chapter 5
IN THIS CHAPTER
» Using the Dictionary and web query tool
» Making the most of interoperability
» Ensuring a high level of business
validation
Ten Reasons to Adopt
ISO 20022
Hopefully, this book has told you everything you need to
know about ISO 20022.
Here are the top ten reasons why ISO 20022 is right for your
business:
» The ISO 20022 standard has a clearly defined and wellmanaged global governance process, open to anyone in the
industry who wants to participate.
» The ISO 20022 Dictionary helps the financial community
align and do business by providing concise definitions for
common business concepts.
» ISO 20022 definitions are created collaboratively by industry
experts from around the world, to ensure their completeness and accuracy.
» The Registration Management Group (RMG) has representation from and works actively with other standards bodies to
promote interoperability.
46 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
» You can use ISO 20022 definitions as the basis for your own
internal communication needs.
» ISO 20022 mostly uses XML – technical syntaxes which enjoy
great support from software platforms and tools. But the
standard is designed to allow the use of other syntaxes as
new requirements emerge.
» ISO 20022 schemas provide a high level of business validation, reducing the risk of sending or receiving incorrect data.
» The ISO 20022 maintenance process enables users to shape
the development of the messages on which they rely.
» ISO 20022 messages are free for anyone to implement on
any network.
» The ISO 20022 web query tool allows anyone to explore the
ISO 20022 Dictionary; no special software is required.
CHAPTER 6 (Almost) Ten Things to Tell Your CIO about ISO 20022 47
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Chapter 6
IN THIS CHAPTER
» Providing a common language
» Enabling flexibility
» Inviting continuous improvement
(Almost) Ten Things
to Tell Your CIO about
ISO 20022
Now that you know all about ISO 20022 and why it’s right
for your business, tell people about it!
Here are (nearly) ten things about ISO 20022 to be sure to tell
your CIO:
» ISO 20022 is an open standard that anyone can use, and to
which anyone can contribute.
» ISO 20022 is a methodology for defining financial data
content – it’s a standard for messaging standards as well as
for APIs.
» Currently, over 800 messages have been defined, and many
more are on the way.
» It’s not just about messages or APIs – ISO 20022 provides a
common language for machines and people to exchange
information about financial business. This common language
is set out in a formal dictionary.
48 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
» ISO 20022 is a business standard; its principal focus is on the
content of the dictionary, rather than the technicalities of
how data is exchanged.
» You can use the dictionary to help translate between
messages that use different syntaxes, as well as APIs, and to
solve other kinds of problems where a shared understanding of the business is important, such as internal system
integration.
» Although ISO 20022 messages are mostly exchanged in XML,
ISO 20022 doesn’t depend on a specific message syntax. If a
different syntax is required to satisfy a business or technical
requirement, or if a new syntax emerges, ISO 20022 can
accommodate it.
» ISO 20022 adoption is gathering pace in major markets
around the world. It’s already being used by some of the
world’s largest Securities Financial Market Infrastructures.
All institutions who send or receive payments-related MT
messages over SWIFT will begin a global transition to ISO
20022. Many of the world’s Payments Market Infrastructures
have announced plans to make the same change. In
regulatory reporting for securities, multiple jurisdictions are
standardising around ISO 20022.
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
CHAPTER 7 (More than) Ten Useful Links for Standards Implementers 49
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Chapter 7
IN THIS CHAPTER
» Delving deeper into languages
» Discovering trade communications
» Finding help from SWIFT
(More than) Ten Useful
Links for Standards
Implementers
F
eel like you’ve learnt a lot about ISO 20022 but want to know
more? Here’s a list of useful URLs for ISO and other standards bodies.
» ISO 20022: www.iso20022.org
» SWIFT: www.swift.com
» ISO 15022: www.iso15022.org
» FIX Protocol Limited: http://www.fixtradingcommunity.org
» Financial products Markup Language (FpML): www.fpml.org
» eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL): www.xbrl.org
» Extensible Markup Language (XML): www.w3.org/XML
» International Securities Association for Institutional Trade
Communication (ISITC): www.isitc.org
» MyStandards: www.swift.com/mystandards
50 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
» Securities Market Practice Group: www.smpg.info
» Payments Market Practice Group: www.swift.com/pmpg
» ISO 20022 Programme Hub: www.swift.com/standards/
iso-20022-programme
Glossary 51
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Glossary
ACH: Automated Clearing House that’s used to clear retail payments
between banks in a country or region.
Application Programming Interface (API): A connection between
computers or between computer programs. An API is a type of software
interface, offering a service to other pieces of software.
Business components and elements: Business concepts used and
processed to perform the various financial activities, such as ‘Account’,
‘Trade’ and ‘Party’. Business components are usually characterised by a
series of ‘business elements’. For example, a ‘Trade’ will be characterised
by business elements such as Trade Date, Trade Time, Trade Price and
Trade Place.
Business justification: Document prepared by an organisation wishing
to develop and register ISO 20022 content. The document describes the
content to be developed, and the purpose and benefits for the industry.
It’s submitted for the approval of the ISO 20022 Registration Management Group (RMG).
Coexistence: The situation of multiple standards existing at the same
time in the same business space. Within SWIFT, this refers to the
coexistence between the MT and MX standards. This also refers to the set
of measures being taken to make the situation easier to handle by the
community (publication of mapping rules, translation services and so on).
Components: See Business components and message components.
Corporate action: An event initiated by a public company that affects
the securities issued by the company. Also refers to the sub-domain of
the financial services industry related to the management of such events.
CSD: Central Securities Depository. An organisation holding securities to
enable book entry transfer of securities. The physical securities may be
immobilised by the depository, or securities may be dematerialised
(so that they exist only as electronic records).
52 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Dictionary: Part of the ISO 20022 repository that contains all items that
can be reused during business modelling and message definition activities.
EAI: Enterprise Application Integration. Middleware to connect applications and communication interfaces. Typical EAI software includes
features for mapping data between various formats, enriching messages with data from other systems and orchestrating message flows.
FIN: The messaging service offered by SWIFT for the secure and reliable
exchange of MT messages in store-and-forward mode. By extension, the
syntax used to format these MTs.
FIX: Financial Information eXchange. A communication protocol
designed by the FIX Protocol Limited (FPL) for transmission of messages
in specific areas of the securities processing life cycle, for example, the
pre-trade and trade spaces.
FpML: Financial products Mark-up Language. A primarily XML-based
communication protocol dedicated to OTC derivative contracts processing life cycle. FpML is owned by the International Swaps and Derivatives
Association (ISDA).
Giovannini Protocol: In its 2003 report, the Giovannini Group, as
advisor to the European Commission, published a report identifying 15
barriers to efficient EU cross-border clearing and settlement. The group,
under the chairmanship of Dr Alberto Giovannini, CEO of UNIFORTUNE
SGR SpA, stated that SWIFT, through the Securities Market Practice
Group (SMPG), should define a solution to eliminate Barrier 1, which
cites national differences in information technology and interfaces used
by clearing and settlement providers.
InterAct: A private SWIFT network established between members of a
financial community for the purpose of exchanging transaction and
other financial data.
Interoperability: The capability to easily exchange business information while using different message standards. ISO 20022 promotes
global use of syntax-neutral business and message components as a
common denominator to achieve interoperability between standards
using different syntaxes.
ISO: The International Organization for Standardization. An international
standard-setting body, composed of representatives from more than
160 national standards organisations, that promulgates worldwide
standards in a variety of domains aiming at facilitating cross-border
exchanges of goods, services and techniques.
ISO 15022: An ISO standard that describes the syntax for developing
securities messages used mainly to support back-office-related 
Glossary 53
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
transaction flows. It replaced the previous securities messaging
standard, ISO 7775.
ISO 20022 RA: Registration Authority that offers the services described
in an ISO standard on behalf of and under a contractual agreement with
the International Organization for Standardization.
ISO 20022 Repository: Repository maintained by the ISO 20022 RA
which contains the financial business models, message definitions and
components defined in compliance with the ISO 20022 standard.
ISO 20022 RMG: Registration Management Group in charge of the
supervision of the ISO 20022 registration process.
ISO 20022 SEG: Standards Evaluation Groups in charge of validating
candidate ISO 20022 messages within the scope of the business
justification and ensuring that they address the needs of their (future)
international community of users.
Message: A set of structured information exchanged between two
parties involved in a financial transaction.
Message component and element: A reusable data structure used for
assembling message definitions. The data defined in a message
component is ‘traced’ back to the business components and business
elements. In simple terms, business components define the business
meaning; message components create data structures for messaging.
MI: Market Infrastructure. A system that provides services to the
financial industry for trading, clearing and settlement, matching of
financial transactions and depository functions.
Middleware: Software that enables data to be exchanged among
different systems with standard communication components and tools
for formatting, mapping and processing.
MT: The traditional ‘: tag: value’ Message Types for use on the FIN
service offered by SWIFT.
MX: An XML message exchanged over SWIFTNet, whether or not it is ISO
20022 compliant.
MyStandards: A web-based platform provided by SWIFT to manage and
implement standards and related market practices.
RTGS: Real Time Gross Settlement System.
Semantics: The study of meaning, usually in language. The word is
often used in ordinary language to denote a problem of understanding
that comes down to word selection or connotation.
54 ISO20022 For Dummies, SWIFT 6th Limited Edition
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
SEPA: Single Euro Payment Area.
Standards Editor: Standards work station developed by SWIFT to
support the development of ISO 20022 compliant models and messages
and the ISO 20022 RA services.
Editor: ‘Lite’ version of the Standards Editor, developed by SWIFT and
offered to submitting organisations.
SWIFT: Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication
(see www.swift.com).
Syntax: Physical format of a message used to identify and represent the
conveyed pieces of information.
T2S: TARGET2 Securities. An initiative of the Eurosystem, TS2 is an IT
platform that aims to make settlements across national borders simpler
and more cost-efficient.
TARGET2: The Eurosystem-owned European Real Time Gross Settlement
(RTGS) system. TARGET2 is one of the largest high-value payment
systems in the world.
Taxonomy: The classification in a hierarchical system, typically
organised by supertype-subtype relationships, also called generalisationspecialisation relationships or, less formally, parent-child relationships.
TC 68: ISO Technical Committee 68 in charge of all ISO standards to
support financial services.
Translation rules: Set of rules to be used to map the pieces of information included in a message expressed in one syntax to the equivalent
message expressed in another syntax.
UML: Unified Modeling Language. The visual modelling language used
in ISO 20022 to represent the industry business model.
XBRL: eXtensible Business Reporting Language. An open data standard
for financial reporting.
XML: eXtensible Mark-up Language. Popular syntax to encode documents (or messages) electronically on the internet. XML allows communities to define their own identifiers (or tags) and format (or data type)
for each component of a message. One of the two official ISO 20022
syntaxes with ASN.1.
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
Acknowledgements
The authors would like to thank all the members of the
SWIFT Standards team who contributed to the original content
of this book, especially: Gottfried Leibbrandt, Martine DeWeirdt,
Karin De Ridder, Charifa Elotmani, Jean-Marie Eloy, Juliette Kennel, Kris Ketels, Anne Suprenant and Stephen Lindsay.
We would also like to extend our thanks to those members of the
SWIFT and ISO communities who took the time to review the early
drafts of the book and offer their comments: Andreas Schneider
(BHF), John Masterson (BoNY-Mellon), Rune Olofsson (Nordea),
Mike Tagai (JPM-Chase), Javier Santamaria (Santander), Loretta
Briano (SanPaulo) and Peter Potgieser (RBS). Finally, we would
like to thank Patrice Hertzog for providing the Foreword.
Updates to the sixth edition were prepared by members of the
SWIFT Standards team.
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
These materials are © 2022 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Any dissemination, distribution, or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
WILEY END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT
Go to www.wiley.com/go/eula to access Wiley’s ebook EULA.